Hey, everybody.
Hello, hello.
So, we've got
Pamela Fox here today and I'm excited
to get going, so let's just
jump in. Welcome everybody on
YouTube and live.
And Brian, really quick, before we start
the official show, I just want to tell you, I just swapped
out the ad stuff for you, so I'll take
care of it, okay? Okay. Got it.
I don't want to put you on the spot, you're like, "Wait, what is all this?"
Okay. Alright.
Hello and welcome to Python
- Welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news
and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 323, recorded Valentine's day,
February 14th, 2023.
And I am Brian Okken.
- I'm Michael Kennedy.
- I am Pamela Fox.
- So thanks Pamela for joining us today.
So for people that don't know who you are,
can you introduce yourself?
- Yeah, so I'm Pamela and I currently work at Microsoft
where I am a cloud advocate in Python,
which means that I figure out how to get stuff
working on Azure while using Python
and make sure that our code samples are nice and Pythonic
and that we're doing things the Python way
and just trying to streamline the experience.
And yeah, that's really fun
'cause it just means I get to write Python all day.
And actually it just means I deploy all day.
I'm pretty much always deploying something,
which I guess is appropriate.
I once had an ex-boyfriend who named our Wi-Fi network
don't stop deploying and the password was,
I like to ship it.
And I guess it's 'cause I deployed so much back then.
So I guess I've always been a deployer, so it works.
But yeah, that's what I do now.
Before this, I was at UC Berkeley teaching Python.
And then before that was at Khan Academy and Coursera
and all sorts of places programming in Python
and JavaScript.
- Ooh, neat.
- That sounds like such a fun job.
I've always thought the developer advocate
would be really cool because you get to do
all the cool coding tech stuff.
You don't have to run so much production software
so you're not on pager duty.
And you get to travel and talk to a lot of people.
Like, what else could you want, you know?
- Yeah, I think for you too,
it'd probably be a really good job too.
It's always just a really nice combination of programming
and using the other parts of your brain too.
- Yeah, excellent.
Excellent, well, we're happy to have you on the show.
So thanks for being here.
And unrelated to Hamela being here
and working for Microsoft,
this episode is also brought to you
by Microsoft for Startups,
but we'll talk more about that later.
Brian, should we kick it off?
- Yeah.
- While we all love to be in this tech space
and we're all big fans and that's why we're here,
sometimes you just wanna get away, right?
And especially in the American West,
there's a lot of places that you could get away
Two, the camping sites around here are magnificent.
There's one that I really like that has free roaming peacocks
that just cruise through your camp while you're camping.
It's really nuts, and eagles flying around.
However, that and all the other places
are super hard to find for this exact same reason, okay?
So one of our listeners, I mean,
oh gosh, I don't see his name here,
but Jephthon is the name here,
Justin Flannery from Denver,
also a place with great camping,
put together this cool CLI, this terminal app,
called Camply.
So Camply is the campsite finder.
It's a tool to find campgrounds and campsites
that are typically sold out through recreation.gov
and Yellowstone and other sites, okay?
- Okay.
- So, you know, it's all Python.
So the idea is basically,
it talks to all these different APIs.
You can either run it in Docker
or just run it in Python, I believe.
PipX install Camply, which I love it.
PipX is exactly how CLI tools
that are not part of your programming story
should be installed coming from Python.
And so you would say like Camply,
recreation areas dash, you could do a search
like --search Glacier National Park.
or have you ever wanted to stay in a fire lookout tower
in California?
How cool would that be?
- To me, pretty neat.
- Depends if there's a fire or not.
- Yes, exactly.
Well, if there's no fire, so maybe not September.
I don't know.
- Yeah, you've got a glacier and a fire,
so maybe you just use the same thing.
- Let's rewrite that.
- Exactly.
- Have you ever wanted to go down a really long ladder
to use the restroom?
- Oh, you're so practical, Brian.
So practical.
Anyway, these things are not super easy to find potentially.
So you can say I'm looking for campsites in some area,
start date, end date, and search forever.
And it'll just sit there and just wait and hang out.
So it'll search at recreation.gov, Yellowstone,
going to camp, Reserve California, some other places.
And yeah, it'll just sit there and pull that data for you.
And I think it's just a really cool app.
It's a cool use of Python and people,
if they're interested in going camping.
- The bit about this that I like is
it has configurable notifications
for if it finds something.
So if you're looking for a particular campground
and you just got it running in the background,
you can have it hooked up to give you a Slack notification
or an email or even a text message through Twilio.
And that's pretty darn cool to be able to just have it,
you know, text you when you find something.
- Yeah, just kick it off, let it run,
let it keep watching.
- Is it a cron job?
How does the search forever work?
- I think you leave it, I don't know for sure,
but I think you just leave your terminal running.
- It must have a sleep or something, I don't know.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You would hope otherwise it's gonna get banned pretty soon.
But no, I would think it just pulls every so often.
I think it's doing, I think there's some APIs in here.
If you look through, it talks about where
the data is coming from.
There's a recreational information database
from recreation.gov.
It's pulling some of that data.
And I do think it's really cool that it also
does those different notifications.
I've just learned about push bullet and push over
and realized I should probably figure out what those are.
Those sound cool.
I know what Twilio is.
And one of the things I like about this
is this could be like a SaaS app or something like that.
But I'm glad that somebody-- but you don't have to.
If you have a cool need that works for you
and you think somebody else might have a need
for a similar thing, so build something like this
and share it.
You don't necessarily have to make money off the back of it.
There's a lot of--
it's one of the things I've tried to be pushing more
is software developers have these skills that we can build
things like this, but a lot of people don't.
And being able to build things and share things
is one of the great pleasures of doing what we do.
So kudos to Justin. - Absolutely.
Yeah, yeah, well done, Justin.
Thanks for sending that in.
And one of our listeners, Kim,
also been on the show before,
points out that, you know, he's from South Africa.
You should try camping in some place in South Africa.
Free-roaming rhinos and elephants
are slightly more concerning than peacocks.
- Yeah, I'm impressed with people that live in places
that have free roaming rhinos,
or pretty much all of Australia, all of it.
Very impressed.
It's a lovely place, but I'm always a little nervous
to be like out of the city there.
Anyway.
- All of nature wants to kill you in Australia.
- Exactly, and it's good at it.
All right, off to you, Brian.
- Okay, wow, I'm not sharing anything yet.
So just one moment, share screen.
Sorry, all of the people were listening
and waiting for this.
Okay, we've got fancy readmes.
So everybody loves,
Henik points out that your fancy project
needs a fancy PyPI readme.
Of course it does.
It's very nice.
There's lots of stuff.
So what sort of fancy stuff would you like?
So one example is the black readme.
So black is one of the ones that uses the same project
that we're gonna talk about.
But so what's fancy about it?
It's just got, what's the normal standard readme stuff.
But one of the stuff that has things at the bottom
is it's got a changelog listed here
and the authors and some other stuff,
the highlights from different versions.
How do you do that within a readme
without copy and pasting?
So that's where this comes in.
So this is a project called Hatch Fancy PyPI Readme.
And Hennig has used apparently in the past
setup.py for generating for packaging.
And with that was the ability to do some code
while you're running setup.py.
But pyproject.toml based stuff is different, right?
So if you just have a flit thing and you point it to readme,
it'll just point to a static readme
or you'd have generators outside of this.
But what this tool does is it has,
apparently there's a hook system within Hatch
that allowed this functionality.
So there's configuration that you can do things like,
and there's configuration on this readme
to tell you how to use it and everything,
but the things you'd want to use with it
is these little fragments.
So you can add a text fragment, of course,
but that doesn't really help you much
'cause you already have to write it down in your readme.
But this is, actually what this is,
is this will be part of your,
it's in conjunction with pyproject.toml
and your readme to work together, which is cool.
So you can define some of the text fragments
in your pyproject.toml
and have them show up in your readme.
You can also do files.
You can say, "Hey, I actually want the author's file
"in there also."
And the files have a start after and start before and stuff.
So some of the files that you include in there
might have some boring stuff
that you don't want to include in there
and you can cut that out.
So this is really exciting to be able to,
'cause I've switched like all my project
to pyproject.toml-based projects,
but I do want some neat stuff in my readme.
So I'll start using this as well.
Okay, so you have files.
You also have pattern matching,
which is neat with files,
but then down below, substitutions.
So you've got like a search and replace patterns
that use a regular expression substitutions.
And then I think that's all, I'm not missing anything,
but some pretty neat things that you can do
within your readme.
- Yeah, and you've got a CLI interface.
It's lovely.
It's almost like Jinja, Chameleon,
some templating language for your readme.
- So here's the thing that I am always confused about is,
Do you, you know, there's the read me and then there's the read the docs, right?
And sometimes when I go to a package, I'm like, which one should I go?
Like, should I start in the read me and then see if there are more read the docs?
Like, so this blurs the line even more.
It's like, should, should it just all be in the read me when, when do you go to,
you know, the external docs?
Well, okay.
So I've struggled with this on a couple of things and I've got one that's like on
the line, it's got a ton of functionality.
and so maybe it ought to be a read the docs thing,
but some people have really big readmes.
So which should you go to?
Well, the pack, so are you talking about
the package maintainer or the person learning
about the package, where should they go?
- Well, I think you have both those questions, right?
I like, because one thing is I can't decide
where should I link to, should I link to the PyPy page
or should I link to their read the docs page, right?
What's, it's just, what is the canonical documentation?
And right now I think as both a creator
and a user of packages, it's not clear where to go.
- Well, as a user, I always try to start at the PyPI page
and whatever, hopefully there's either a homepage,
it's got like black as homepage and changelog,
you can include a documentation link too.
So if it's just got a homepage,
it's just probably the readme.
But the documentation, I think it's nice
if people leave the homepage to go to their GitHub repo
and add a documentation link
if they've got a read the docs thing, I think.
- I do like to see a lot of stuff in the readme
'cause if you're already there,
you don't have to go track it down.
The time that I would see, Brian,
maybe is if there's like a lot,
a lot of different scenarios.
Here's this API function and here's a tutorial
And here, maybe there's a lot of navigation, I guess.
Maybe it makes sense for a read the docs.
Or if it fits on one file, then maybe make a copy.
I don't know.
And I've got a lot of tiny little pytest plugins
that I'm just not going to do a read the docs documentation
tree.
It's just a little tool.
So small tools, it's easy.
It's the in-between part that it's difficult. So don't know.
Yeah, for sure.
I love our audience.
I'll have great things to add here.
Henry Schreiner says, "GitHub dependency graphs
"now support PEP 621 as of yesterday."
So how's that for keeping on top of things?
So perfect time to switch if you haven't yet.
Nice read me's too.
And then Sero says, "The docs link should always be
"at the top of the read me."
So, excellent.
- Yeah, I like that too.
- Yep, and one more piece of real-time follow-up.
Justin, author of Camply, is in the audience,
says, "Yes!"
Wait, no, wrong one.
I got out of sync there.
"Thanks for featuring this.
"You can leave it running in the background.
"That's where the accompanying Docker image is from,
"so you could just push it over to a Raspberry Pi
"and just let it cruise there," which is helpful.
- So just to figure out, make sure I understand this,
if you close your laptop while a Docker image is running,
is it going to keep--
- It's probably gonna stop.
- Okay.
- It depends on your speed. - So that's why
you want the Raspberry Pi?
- Yeah, yeah, something you can just leave on.
Or, you know, something,
I guess you could set your laptop to still running
if the clamshell bit's closed,
but generally it would close.
You could even put it on to one of those
little tiny Adafruit things I would imagine.
I doubt that there's anything that platform specific,
probably just requests and stuff, so.
- Or you can have a Mac mini running.
- Yes, you could definitely have a Mac mini running,
like the one I'm using right now.
All right, before we move on,
let me tell you about our sponsor this week.
So, as I said before, this episode is brought to you
by Microsoft for Startups, Founders Hub.
I'm here to tell you all about a fantastic opportunity
for startup founders, especially those interested in AI.
With over six figures in benefits,
this program is a game changer for startups.
you'll get $150,000 in Azure credits.
So you can work with them a lot to deploy many, many things,
which is the richest credit offering
from any cloud provider.
Founders Hub is offering a unique chance
to access open AIs, APIs,
as well as the new Azure OpenAI service.
So you can easily infuse generative AI capabilities
into your applications.
The team at Microsoft will also provide you
with one-on-one technical advice
to help you with architectural plans,
scalability, implementation best practices,
security. Plus, you'll have access to the network of mentors plugged into the startup world,
which we've talked about a lot. A huge asset for building your network. The best part is the
program is open to everyone and has no funding requirements, whether you're in idea phase or
further along. It just takes five minutes to apply and you'll get all these benefits. So,
harness the power of AI in your startup. Sign up for Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub
today at pythonbytes.fm/foundershub2022. Link is in your show notes. No-brainer opportunity for
startup founders, so don't miss out. And Brian, one more thing, just to make the point about how
awesome some of these open AI APIs and different things that they're offering here is, I asked
that same AI to write this ad for us. So how cool is that? I mean, if you want to do, I don't know
I don't know if you've played with these things yet,
but OpenAI is really incredible.
And if you want all these credits
to be able to work with it,
access to AI, different APIs that maybe don't,
people don't all have,
sign up at our link in the show notes.
So thanks to Microsoft for supporting the show.
- Nice.
- And thanks to OpenAI for writing a cool ad for us.
- Wow, I still don't have access to OpenAI
and I work for Microsoft.
So I guess I just need to apply for that program.
- Exactly.
Where's your startup idea?
Get in the game.
All right.
This next one comes to us from Pamphil.
Well, wait.
Go ahead.
Don't we have one from Pamela?
How did we-- how did I skip that?
Yes, we absolutely have one from Pamela.
Sorry.
All right, sweet.
So I'm going to talk about something new in Pyodide.
I know Pyodide has been on this show before.
Pyodide is Python for the browser based on WebAssembly,
a port of CPython to WebAssembly.
Now, the really cool thing, I've been using PyDive for various projects for a while,
but the very cool thing that happened recently is that there's now 3.11 support in the latest,
so in May, so there's 3.11 support. This was the PR for it.
And so it's not in stable yet, it's in latest, but that means you can actually, you know,
try it out in their little REPL here.
I can't think of 3.11 code off the bat,
but you can see it says 3.11.
And what they're working on right now is,
let's see, they're working on some benchmarks.
So they did some benchmarks here to show,
you know, there's,
'cause 3.11 has a lot of speed up improvements.
So they did a bunch of benchmark here,
but it looks like they're also interested
in other benchmarks as well.
- Yeah, it looks like they're marketing faster though,
which is really cool.
- Yeah, and I also, so I did my own benchmark.
I mean, I wrote a function called benchmark,
so it must be a benchmark, right?
So one thing that I use Pyodide for
is recursionvisualizer.com.
This is something I built when I was teaching Python
at Berkeley, and we taught a lot of recursion in Python,
which I know is a weird thing to teach in Python,
but this is academia, so we teach recursion in Python.
So this is a tool that uses Pyodide
in order to visualize the call graph.
And so, you know, when you're doing recursive functions,
they can take actually a long time.
Your fifth 10 is actually gonna take a while.
Here we go, we got it.
That wasn't that bad.
- Oh my gosh.
- It's a bit long.
- Is it me?
(laughing)
- So I enabled 3.11 for this yesterday in my local branch
and did my own little benchmarking,
and it's like 15% faster,
which is actually relevant for recursive functions
'cause some of the recursive functions that you run here
can actually take a long time.
All you have to do is increase this parameter
a little bit more, and it really, it takes a while.
So it is definitely faster
for at least this use case here.
So that's cool.
It's not yet in the stable,
so you can see what they're working on here.
It should be in the next release of PyDi 2.23.
They're working on that.
I also tried it out in my other tool that uses PyDi.
This is disthis.com.
This is a way to disassemble Python code in
the browser because I love the dis module,
and I want everybody else to love it too.
Disthis.com. The thing that I was able to do with this,
because of 3.11, is that 3.11
has the specializing adaptive interpreter,
which actually replaces certain opcodes with other opcodes
when it sees that it's hot code.
Something, some code has been run at least like eight times,
and it's doing some particular operation that it can optimize,
it actually replaces the byte code.
We can compare this to this,
and you see that when we have the adaptive interpreter,
it's using different opcodes than it used before.
And it's also got this cache here.
So this is cool that now you can actually see 3.11
and see the difference in how 3.11 can work versus 3.10.
So yeah, I thought this was really fun.
This is amazing. And your visualizer for the recursion is really cool.
Yeah, that's really cool.
- So this one, this, this, this, and you know,
props for a good naming there, that's funny.
But wow, you even get the adaptive interpreter in Pyodide.
- Yeah. - Yeah, that's really cool.
- Yeah, so in order to do this,
so I put this together yesterday
since I wanted, you know, something cool to show.
So to do, if you want to have the,
the, if you want to have the latest Pyodide,
if you want to try it out, if you're like me
and for some reason have a huge number of Pyodide projects.
I'm sure you all are.
You just have to do /dev, right?
So instead of a hard version number,
and of course you shouldn't do this
if you're using Pyodide for something production,
but I don't know who's using Pyodide
for something production,
'cause to me Pyodide is all about a great way
for building educational tools in the browser.
I have no desire to replace JavaScript with Python.
I think you should use JavaScript
if that's, you know, you're just trying
to make an interactive site,
but for making educational Python tools
in the browser, PyDite is, it's so good, right?
We don't have to run a sandbox server.
So you, if you want to try out 3.11,
you just do slash dev instead of a hard version number.
- Nice.
- Yeah, this is very exciting stuff.
What are your thoughts on PyScript?
Have you played with it?
- Right, so isn't, I think PyScript is exactly
what I don't want, which is trying to replace JavaScript.
Right?
As far as I'm concerned, I haven't played with it.
- Yeah, yeah, I think it might be.
Although I think also it may offer
some interesting alternatives, right?
Like for example, if you've got a progressive web app
or you've got an electron JS thing
and you want to write Python more locally,
I think some of these are kind of interesting options.
- Yeah, so for educational tools, for dev tools,
but we really need, I mean, we already,
even with JavaScript, we're making websites
that are not very performant, even with JavaScript.
And when you bring in these PyDi, like PyDi is huge.
It's a big old bundle.
You shouldn't be like this YOLO downloading Python.
- Yeah.
- Downloading CPython into your webpage, right?
- It's definitely too big for that, that's for sure.
All right, also I'm super impressed.
There's a lot of our guests will say,
"I found this cool thing and it was really neat."
But you're like, "Oh, I wanted to create
"this amazing website to demonstrate
"some stuff of a new feature."
So well done on (indistinct)
That's awesome.
- Cool examples, yeah.
- Yeah.
All right.
Yeah, very cool.
We'll definitely put those links in the show notes
for people to go check out.
All right, Brian, now should I go?
- Now it's your turn.
- I can't believe I almost skipped
Pamela's amazing stuff.
All right, so going from really fun to slightly less fun.
How about we talk about European law?
Is that good?
So- - Sure.
That sounds exciting.
Yeah, there's this, what is it called?
Let me pull up my notes here.
There's the Cyber Resilience Act, the CRA,
which is a proposal to hold,
I think the most important part is to hold companies
that write and ship software liable for knowingly
being really negligent about shipping vulnerable software.
So for example, you sell a router.
It's like some cheap knockoff router.
You support it with updates, maybe once, maybe never.
It has some huge vulnerability
that people take over your home network
if they run it, you know, RCE, remote code execution,
really, really bad.
You just don't bother to fix it
'cause it's not worth it, right?
We don't wanna worry about that.
I think that's the idea of this is to say,
Companies that do that, no, they can't sell us a device
we put in our house or we put software systems
that we put into our hospitals
and just don't care about fixing them
from a security perspective, right?
Not from a not working so well perspective.
However, the concern that Panthro Roy pointed out
and sent this over, and that's why I'm talking about it,
is there's a concern that that also applies to open source.
So if I made some open source project,
somebody adopted it, there was some vulnerability in it,
am I now facing fines and punishment
from the European Union because I didn't patch
my silly little program?
So there's this organization called the Open Source
Initiative.
And they-- let me pull my little heights here.
It says, this Cyber Resiliency Act
an interesting and important proposal for European law that tries to drive safety and
integrity for software.
The proposal includes a requirement for self-certification of suppliers of software to attest that they
conform to it for security, privacy, and the lack of CVEs, critical vulnerability events.
However, the European Commission has framed an exception for open source, but they say,
we've been doing this for a long time,
drawing on two decades of experience,
we can clearly see the current text
will cause extensive problems for open source.
Since the goal is to avoid harming open source software,
we really need to make sure that certain wording
of this basically gets replaced.
So the thing I'm linking to is the feedback
from the open source initiative
around this project submitted by Simon Phillips.
So people can check it out and see what they think.
But there's a lot of things out there
that are well-intentioned that have unintended consequences.
And I'd hate to see open source get squashed
because people are afraid of the security,
liability of it, basically.
- Is this related to that lawsuit
against the crypto open source authors?
where they're trying to get lots of money from them,
claiming that they should be able to recover their tokens.
Interesting. It might have been inspired.
I think it's more of a general, kind of like the GPR,
a general law proposed in the EU.
But yeah, pretty interesting.
There's a lot of stuff up in the air.
We've got the GitHub Copilot lawsuit,
and we've got the stable diffusion lawsuit with Getty.
You've got this kind of stuff in the US.
Everyone seems bent on destroying Section 230,
which is the protection to allow people
to post their own stuff if you moderate it.
We'll see where it goes.
I have no idea what's gonna happen with these things,
but they're kind of, a lot of stuff's up in the air,
and here's one more bit.
All right, Brian, over to you.
okay.
So that was deep.
So I know.
So I told you we were going from a really fun thing that Pamela did.
It's like, Oh, here's some law.
Well, let's go to something really simple.
Single quotes or double quotes on your strings.
so, let's do a quick poll here.
Pamela, you got a preference.
I had to figure this out a couple of days ago.
Cause I, I've been trying to make the Azure samples more
or Pythonic and by running black,
but black changes all the, what does it change?
- I think it's single to double, right?
- Single to double. - I'm not totally sure.
- It changes all the single to double,
but it's such a big change.
And I'm like, it's so arbitrary, it doesn't matter.
So I undid that change.
Luckily, there's a black option that you can do,
which is like ignore string normalization.
So I now run it with that.
Because I actually, I don't have,
I think the only reason I would tend to do single quotes
is that in case I was embedding HTML,
I really want double quotes in HTML.
Of course, that means I'm a bad person
that's embedding HTML in my Python, so.
- Shh.
(laughing)
- There's other reasons too, so.
Well, a similar, okay, Michael, do you have a preference?
- I think I prefer single quotes
because it's one, fewer keys to press on the keyboard.
Yeah.
- Oh, yeah, you don't have to do shift.
- Given that I have, excuse me, that I have RSI issues
and I gotta be careful of, and I have my super cool,
a Microsoft ergonomic keyboard
that makes a massive difference.
But I still always am thinking about
what can I do to type less,
do less with my hands and accomplish the same thing.
But I have an exception.
And it's similar to Pamela's,
but not exactly the same is
if I'm doing anything where I want to put a quote.
So if I have to say,
it's the second day of the week,
then I want to put an apostrophe for the it's.
And I don't want to backslash that.
So I put double quotes for the string
so that I don't have to escape the single quote.
But if I was using double quotes in the string,
then I would put single quotes.
So I don't like, so if I'm using one,
then I'll use the inside the string,
I'll use the other.
So I don't have to use escape characters.
- So that's like the argument that Black has
for why they chose the double quotes,
I think is because of the apostrophes.
But I'm not really writing a lot of prose within,
if I'm writing a lot of prose,
it's usually it's a triple quoted swing string
and it doesn't matter usually
'cause I'm doing a block thing.
But so this article is a,
so single or double quotes in Python.
And this is coming from somebody that came from R
and came to Python and similarly wanted to make sure
they were doing things Pythonic like,
and they ran across people using black
and what to do about that.
So they looked into it a little bit more
and like, what's Pepet say?
Well, Pep8 doesn't say anything about this.
And I don't think this article goes into it,
but the other thing, not just Pep8,
but if you try out Python itself, the REPL,
if you define a string in the REPL
and then like X equals hi there,
and then say, what's the value of X?
The REPL uses single quotes.
So that seems Pythonic to me,
unless we're saying the REPL is non-Pythonic.
So the real answer in this article is it's up to you.
But it kinda isn't because people use black
in their projects.
And there's a lot of people that are black fanatics
and nothing against them, I'm kind of one of them as well.
So me personally, I am kind of a mix.
So I use black on almost all projects
and I use, but I just type it in as single quotes
and just let Black fix it for me.
And so the RSI is solved and Black's happy.
But mostly it's just,
I don't wanna make that decision on a lot of projects.
But there are some projects
that there's a lot of quotes in there
and it really, or the tradition,
or there's a ton of code already there.
And so I wanted to point out that this,
I guess it's a public service announcement.
if you're not really into black or just this part of it,
just black is a great idea,
but I just don't wanna go with double-quoted strings,
there's blue.
So everybody just remember there's blues around.
Blue is just like black,
but there's three primary differences.
The single quote,
it's defaults to single quotes instead of double quotes.
So for projects where it really makes sense
to use most of the time single quotes,
And there's a, I have several that we're sending strings
to other APIs and it's just tradition to use.
There's other parameters inside that use double quotes
and they can't be single quotes inside.
So they have to be, it's the, anyway.
So there's projects I use blue on that, for that.
The other thing is black defaults to the line length
of 88 characters, I think, which is a little weird.
I know there's logic around it,
but it's still a little weird.
And if you're going with PEP 8s or the traditional 79,
I don't think PEP 8 specifies 79,
but a lot of people use 79.
So blue defaults to 79.
And the other thing that I like
is it preserves white space around hash marks.
So if you've got comments along the right side of your code,
like in multi-lines and they're lined up by the hash marks,
black will strip that out and says,
ah, you only need two spaces there.
And blue says, you can align over there, that's fine.
So those are the three differences.
So blue is pretty cool.
I like it.
- Yeah, Pamela, you use blue, black.
- Yeah, gosh, there's too many options.
I am waiting for rough to implement formatting
and then I will have only one tool
that I need to use for everything.
'Cause rough now supports eyesore and pie upgrade.
So we're just waiting.
And Charlie says he's working on formatting.
So I'll just do whatever rough does.
- Yeah, rough is awesome.
- Yeah, rough is really cool.
Some interesting angles from the audience
I think are worth throwing out here.
However, if you want to fix this,
if you think black should use single quotes,
just do a PR, I'm sure they'll accept it.
Here.
(laughing)
The thing like, no, we've decided.
Kim says, if you write both C and Python,
you'll learn to stick with double quotes
or you'll wonder why C doesn't work.
And yeah, so basically David Poole says the same thing.
Like if you're working in a language that treats
or doesn't support single quotes for strings,
like you might want to.
- It's not the only thing.
I keep trying to write printf in my Python code.
- You do?
Oh, you're so old school.
I use cout less than less than.
(laughing)
For my C++ style there.
All right.
All right, so who got next?
- Pamela.
- All right.
Okay, let's see.
All right, so yeah, so this weekend,
I decided that my personal website is over-engineered.
So my personal website is pamelafox.org
and it's super over-engineered.
So right now it is a Docker, so it's containerized.
It's a Flask app running inside a Docker container
on Azure Container Apps with a CDN in front.
And it pulls the data from a Google spreadsheet,
an authenticated Google spreadsheet.
So all this data is actually from a Google spreadsheet.
- That's cool.
- So it's a little over-engineered.
And part of the reason it's over-engineered
is 'cause I ported it from App Engine Python 2.7,
so like old school App Engine,
and I was trying to port it to Azure,
And so I was using Memcache before,
and I was trying, so that's why I put a CDN in front.
So anyway, I realized, you know,
it's not that fancy of a website,
and the data only updates like once a month or something.
So why do I have this whole Flask app
that's just running all the time using up cloud resources?
So I wanted to be less wasteful.
And I also wanted to try out static web apps,
'cause I feel like everybody's talking about that
all the time, at least around me.
So I was like, okay, how can I make this
into a static web app?
And people recommended various things in Python,
like Pelican and Lector, but I already had this Flask app.
So I was like, there has to be an easy way
to do this for Flask.
So I found this frozen Flask,
and it takes a Flask application
and turns into a set of static files.
So you just put in this code here,
and then you just run this, and it'll create a folder
and put the HTML files in there.
And it just does it by looking at the routes
and then looking at all the URL for,
and then recursively following URL fors
until it thinks it gets it all.
And then you can deploy it.
So you could deploy to whatever static web app.
So I deployed to Azure,
but you could also probably deploy to Netlify
or wherever the cool kids deploy their static web apps.
- GitHub Pages, Netlify.
- Yeah, so if you do GitHub Pages,
then you do have to check it in, right?
So that's the only thing is if you did GitHub Pages,
you'd have to check it in.
So now I see one of the advantages
of using something other than GitHub Pages,
'cause I usually use like recursion visualizer,
Dish this, they're all GitHub Pages.
But I wanted to see what's it like
when you're actually not just using GitHub Pages
for everything.
So I thought this was cool and it's not a recent thing,
but the thing that's relevant is that it recently
lost its maintainer.
So in December, there was this pull request
where the current maintainer, the most recent maintainer,
stepped down.
So it currently has no maintainers.
So that makes me sad.
And maybe somebody here would like to maintain it.
'Cause to me, it was a very useful project
'cause I was able to, here's the pull request, right?
And the pull request does way more
than I actually had to change.
But I was able to do this freeze
and then set up some infrastructure,
And boom, I've got a static website.
And I didn't have to do a big old port
to mark down and Pelican and all sorts of things.
So I think it's a cool project.
It could use a little love today on Valentine's Day.
Some maintenance love.
So that's what I wanted to show it.
- So I like Kim's comment saying,
"Surely personal websites
"are supposed to be over-engineered.
"It's how you learn what not to do
in your employer's production environment.
- Yeah, no, I know.
And I'm so, I'm glad I over-engineered it,
but then I saw the bill and I was like,
I really do not need to be paying this much
for my personal website.
So I did learn.
Thank you, Kim.
- Yeah, so my personal stuff's on Netlify.
It's a Hugo, running Hugo as a generator
and then running on Netlify and it's all free.
So I like that.
but I like the work that's mostly the workflow.
So the workflow of like, I want to write something new.
What does that workflow look like?
And right now it's write a markdown file and commit it and push it and that's it.
so I like that.
Yeah, for me it's, I update my Google spreadsheet.
I'm debating, I might move it to a Jason file.
eh, because you know, then I could have like a CI that just makes sure that
Jason is well formatted, maybe something like that.
but I'm kind of a freak for spreadsheets.
So I've been using a Google spreadsheet for 15 years.
- Spreadsheets for website content?
- I love it.
It's so amazing.
You've got to have overflow wrap though
on some of those columns, I'd imagine.
In the spreadsheet, right?
This looks like a really cool offering
or a cool library for people who,
for whatever reason, have a website written in Flask.
And it doesn't have to just be for a blog or a personal site.
You know, it could be someone's built a flask site
that for like an e-commerce type of thing
or some marketing type of thing.
And they realize, you know, we don't really change this.
We haven't changed this in a year and a half.
Why do we need to maintain servers and patch things, right?
- No, and this is kind of a neat project
that for somebody to take on as a new maintainer, so.
- Yeah.
Looking to level up your open source game.
- How about extras?
We got all of our main stuff done.
Pamela, do you have extras?
- The extra that I was gonna mention
was already brought up in the chat
was the fact that GitHub dependency graph
now supports pyproject.toml.
And I think maybe Henry brought that up.
Yeah, Henry brought that up in the chat.
But I was gonna show, wait, where's my, okay.
So I found this Python package template from Microsoft
for somebody at Microsoft.
So if you're starting a new Python project,
this has like everything in it that's done the proper way,
including the pyproject.toml, or okay, maybe not proper,
the way that they think it could be done.
So if you use this, then the GitHub dependency graph
should pick up on your dependencies.
So that was my extra thing was just to talk about
the pyproject.toml with the dependency support now.
- That's big news.
- Very good one, Brian.
- I'll have to go take a look at that
and see what all I disagree with.
(laughing)
- I was just--
- Oh, the Havasaur structure,
you're halfway there to liking it.
- That's good.
So I just was curious what everybody thought.
I don't know if this is new, but I just saw it.
the pricing structure for GitHub.
Is this a new thing?
I don't know.
So 40, like the individual user gets extra stuff
for $48 a year, essentially.
40, it's not per month, it's per year.
So that doesn't seem terrible, but what do we get?
So this is basically the free tiers,
just always, you still get everything for free,
but the copilot is what, 10 bucks a month or something.
So there's some extras that you can add on to other things.
I wasn't when before the transition or whatever a couple years ago
I was paying for get a bro so that I could have private repos
Now you can have a private repose with the free one. So I switched the free is there. What do you guys?
Michael do you have an opinion on this? I guess I have an opinion since I pay get have every month
for the talk Python organization because if you have an organization and
and you want to have people in your organization,
like Talk Python authors,
then you have to pay to have them,
which is different than an individual having
a private repos and things like that.
One of the things that looks interesting from
the team perspective is the Codespaces,
which is basically a server to run your code on.
Is that right, Pamela?
>> Yeah. But why are they?
This is why I had to just open it up to look at
that particular point and expanded it because I use
- I use code spaces constantly on free
and you can use it on free as well.
So I'm trying to understand what the distinction
between the free and the team is for code spaces.
'Cause I'm also a code spaces freak.
- Looks like on free, you've got 15 gigabytes max.
So I don't know.
- You can just pay for a little bit more.
I just pay 'cause I go in for it.
- And more CI/CD.
I mean, I guess I'm getting to the point
where a lot of these extra things like GitHub Actions
and more complex GitHub Actions
and basically I'm doing more.
If I ever hit some of these limits,
I think I'd be happy with the paying.
- Yeah, $48 a year is not the worst subscription
that I pay yearly.
- Yeah, there's stuff I use way less and pay more for.
- Oh yeah.
- Anyway, okay, that was just my extra.
I was just curious about that.
- Okay, I've got a couple as well for us.
- Okay.
- Our transcripts are way better over here now.
So if people are interested in using the transcripts,
which we have for every episode,
not entirely unrelated to OpenAI stuff,
we have way better transcripts.
Like for example,
even when Brian said pyproject.toml,
it got that perfectly right, which is amazing.
And that means our search,
We have search that doesn't just search,
some people's search on their site,
like for podcasts and stuff, just searches the show notes.
Our search is every spoken word, right?
So if you looked for chat, DPT and PI project,
something like that, then check it out.
We're also live streamed by the way,
but there it is, right?
That one, which neither of those,
I believe were listed in the show notes whatsoever.
So because we're getting much better,
like tech words in our search and our transcripts.
That means our search should be way better
for people to try that out.
Anyway.
- So how did you make the transcripts?
What did you use?
- Some of the open AI API stuff over there.
I got a cool Mac app that like plugs into that.
Yeah.
If you need something that will make
your Apple Silicon Mac that normally is cold to the touch
and you put it on your lap,
you're like, "Oh, that thing is a cold laptop."
But you want it like a heater,
you can try to generate one of these transcripts.
It'll be warm for about half an hour.
All right, and similar, not the same thing,
but somewhat related is the AI chat wars,
I think are really taken off.
And I watched an interview
with Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft.
He was just relishing.
He was just completely sitting back
smiling and rubbing his hands like, oh, this is going to be good because, you know, Microsoft
and OpenAI have that partnership.
I'll leave it at that.
I guess it's probably a little more complicated with partial owners and credit anyway, but
they're working very closely together.
And so Microsoft announces that Bing is going to have chat GTP integration as part of its
results and you can actually talk to it.
And GDP4, I believe, not just the one that's out.
And so as a result of that, like that day,
Microsoft Bing rockets to the top of the app store
after announcing ChatGPT integration.
Like when was the last time you were like,
oh my God, where is Bing?
I've got to get it.
You know, this is not something
that has been happening lately, right?
And like, boom, overnight it switches.
The converse is the same day, maybe the next day,
I think that's the same day,
Google shares dropped $100 billion
after the company's AI chatbot flops in the middle.
So contrast those two things,
and it's gonna be an interesting next year or so
in the big tech space.
Yeah.
So, all right, that's just,
put that out there as something interesting to check out.
Also, I worked with the folks at JetBrains
to get our students at Talk Python Training
a free copy of PyCharm Pro.
So for folks who want that,
this only works for new users.
It doesn't work for renewals,
but if you don't have a PyCharm Pro account already,
then just visit the link
and you must be a customer at TalkByDonTrading.
That's part of the deal with JetBrains,
again, just to hand them out randomly.
Anyway, if you are,
there's like a little statement of what it needs,
but for many people,
they can just check that out
and get a free copy of PyCharm Pro, which is fun.
- And if you're not already a member,
just go ahead and purchase the pytest course.
- Yeah, exactly.
I think the pytest course, this guy named Aachen wrote it.
It's pretty good.
People should check that out.
The mobile apps last time or time before last,
I mentioned I was looking for someone
to help me rewrite that.
The flutterification of our mobile app story
is well underway and that's,
so thanks to the audience for helping get that going.
Yeah.
And then very last thing, Brian,
is I did a Talk Python episode,
the behind the scenes at the Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory with the folks,
how Python was used to do the fusion ignition breakthrough
that we all heard about like a month and a half ago.
- Wow.
- That was a video.
So Python is a super important part of that.
Turns out, and I interviewed Jay Solomonson,
he's down at the bottom 'cause of responsiveness,
but great story, look inside that whole thing.
So people should check that out.
I think it's kind of a unique story that
this was in the news a lot, but not this aspect of it.
- Cool.
- Woo, all right, that's all my extras.
- So was the, we usually do a joke,
but we forgot our joke last week.
Was the Bing story the joke or?
- No, the Bing story is real.
We have a couple of good jokes, I believe.
- Yeah, okay.
- Let me pull them up here.
I think you've got one as well,
but let me put my stuff back on the screen.
- I didn't know we were supposed to have jokes.
- Oh no, normally we just have one.
We just screwed up last time.
So we only had a, we somehow skipped it.
So this is one of those, you know,
you go to the fast food restaurants and you'll see
they've got these digital menus up on the screen.
- Yeah.
- So here we've got, there's a McChicken,
All Rights Reserved, little circle meal.
There's a Big Mac, All Rights Reserved meal.
There's a Chicken McNuggets 10 piece meal.
But do you see what's in the middle there, Brian?
- Yeah, the dollar bracket title bracket.
(laughing)
It's 1350.
- What is it?
Dollar bracket title.
It's so amazing that it's up there.
I don't know if there's just supposed to be curly braces
and they missed the shift or something,
but the comments, folks, the comments are nonstop.
Some of them I can't read because,
(laughing)
because it's not actually safe at work,
but it's like, you know,
what the blank is happening to my menu?
and oh my gosh, it's so good.
- It's funny.
- Yeah, also the pricing is really high.
I don't know who pays, what is that?
$13 for a McNugget meal or $10 for a cheeseburger,
but that's a pricey burger.
I guess it's a meal, includes a drink,
but still whatever, that's a lot.
- Yeah.
That's funny.
Okay, well, I have something that I was laughing
like so hard at,
and I'm not gonna go through all of it,
but it's 59 hilariously infuriating examples
of user interfaces.
And I couldn't stop laughing.
The first one right off the bat,
please enter your phone number.
It's just got a plus sign.
You just walk up.
And then the second one's actually my favorite.
- You gotta press it like seven million times
to get your phone number.
- Yeah, yeah.
- The Angry Birds version of a volume control.
So you just like pull it back and then shoot the ball
to what volume you want.
(laughing)
- Oh, I love it.
- I want that actually, that would be fun.
But there's 59 of these that are just terrible.
Please enter your phone number with a dial wheel.
(laughing)
- A digital dial wheel.
- That sounds kind of fun though.
It's been so long since I,
I kind of want to like go out and just get an old phone
just to do that.
- Yeah, a volume slider that's just like,
you have to like make it level.
- Yeah, it's like a level, it slides the volume
to like balance it out.
- Yeah, so is this your phone number?
Is a phone number entry that just guesses your phone number
and you have to say if it's right or not.
Anyway, we won't go through all 59,
but these are worth a good laugh.
don't, it's probably not safe for work unless it's okay for
you to be laughing at work. there's nothing illicit there.
It's just, you know,
you're not allowed to laugh at work.
Well, this is not for fun. You're at work.
I had a manager once that like was set up right across from a long time ago.
This sat right across from me. And every time I glanced over,
He was playing Solitaire on his computer.
Like six hours out of the day,
every time I looked over, it was Solitaire.
I wanted his job.
(laughing)
No, but anyway.
- Brian, thanks a lot.
You just ruined the next hour of productivity for me
with this article.
(laughing)
- Anyway, I guess that wraps up all of our items.
Thanks everybody on the live stream for watching
and everybody that watches it later.
Super thanks to Pamela for showing up today.
And thanks, Michael.
- Yeah, thank you.
Great to have you on the show, Pamela.
- Thank you.
[BLANK_AUDIO]